[//]: # (Source: https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/oauth-2-0-authorization.html)
[//]: # (Downloaded: 2025-12-17 19:33:25)

## Authentication configuration parameters

Type
    

Authentication type. Possible values:

  * `"OAuth2"`: authenticate your request using OAuth2.

  * `"Mock"` (for development or testing environments): emulate an authentication process — instead of access tokens provided by an OAuth2 server, IntelliJ IDEA will use tokens from the authentication configuration. Provide `"Token"` to be used as an access token and, optionally, `"ID Token"` as an ID token. For example:

"my-auth-id": { "Type": "Mock", "Token": "my-token" } 



Grant Type
    

Method to get access tokens. Possible values: `"Authorization Code"`, `"Client Credentials"`, `"Device Authorization"`, `"Implicit"`, and `"Password"`.

Auth URL
    

Authorization URL to which the application will redirect the client request to get the auth code. `"Auth URL"` is required for Authorization Code and Implicit grant types.

Token URL
    

The provider's authentication server, to exchange an authorization code for an access token. `"Token URL"` is required for Authorization Code, Client Credentials, Device Authorization, and Password grant types.

Redirect URL
    

Client application callback URL to which the request should be redirected after authentication. This can be a URL from your client application settings, or, if the authorization server accepts any URL, use an arbitrary URL, for example `http://localhost:12345/foo/bar`.

Client ID
    

Public identifier of your client registered with the API provider. The parameter is required for all [grant types](#grant-type).

Client Secret
    

Confidential identifier used by a client application to authenticate to an authorization server. The parameter is required for the Client Credentials [grant type](#grant-type).

Client Credentials
    

Enter one of the following:

  * `"none"` if you do not want to specify client credentials in the request.

  * `"in body"` if you want to send client credentials in the request body.

  * `"basic"` to send a Basic authentication request in the request header (default value).



Device Auth URL
    

The URL to which the client device makes a request in order to obtain the device code and user code.

Applicable and required for the Device Authorization grant type.

Open Complete URI
    

When set to `true`, the browser opens a verification URI that includes the user code ([verification_uri_complete](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8628#section-3.2)). The default value is `false`: the browser opens the verification URI (without embedded user code) where users are usually supposed to manually enter the code.

Applicable with the Device Authorization grant type.

Start Polling After Browser
    

When set to `true`, the client device should send access token requests to the token endpoint (polling) only after the browser is closed. The default value is `false`: The device continuously polls the token endpoint until the user completes the interaction or the code expires.

Applicable with the Device Authorization grant type.

PKCE
    

Enables [Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7636). Applicable with the Authorization Code grant type.

Enter `"PKCE": true` to use the default algorithm (SHA-256 hashing the autogenerated code verifier). Or customize the behavior using `"Code Challenge Method"` (plain or SHA-256) and `"Code Verifier"`. For example:

"PKCE": { "Code Challenge Method": "Plain", "Code Verifier": "YYLzIBzrXpVaH5KRx86itubKLXHNGnJBPAogEwkhveM" }, 

Scope
    

A scope to limit an application's access to a user's account. Possible values depend on the service you are trying to access.

Acquire Automatically
    

By default, the HTTP Client refreshes or acquires an access token automatically before sending the request. Enter `"Acquire Automatically": false` if you do not want to automatically refresh or acquire an access token before sending the request. You can refresh or acquire manually.

Username
    

The username sent as part of authorization, used with the Password grant type.

Password
    

The user's password sent as part of authorization, used with the Password grant type. To avoid sharing your password, you can use a [private variable](http-client-variables.html) instead of the value, for example, `"Password": "{{password}}"`.

Custom Request Parameters
    

Specify [custom request parameters](#custom-authentication-parameters)

Custom Request Headers
    

Specify [custom request headers](#use-custom-request-headers)
